July 5, 2023
Macro Research
Brazil Macro Monthly
Copom to cut, but keeping the guard up
• 
Central Banks in DM are expected to raise rates somewhat further and 
keep them high for longer even with inflation starting to fall. Economic 
activity has been resilient, but we expect a mild recession ahead;
Caio Megale 
Chief Economist 
 
Andres Pardo 
Chief Latam Strategist 
 
Rodolfo Margato 
Economist 
 
Tiago Sbardelotto 
Economist 
 
Alexandre Maluf 
Economist 
 
Francisco Nobre 
Economist 
 
Contact 
economiaxp@xpi.com.br
• 
In Brazil, economic activity lost steam in 2Q, although remained in 
positive territory. We continue to forecast that GDP will expand by 2.2% 
in 2023 and 1% in 2024;
• 
We expect the consolidated public sector to record a deficit of 1.0% of 
GDP in 2023 and 0.6% in 2024. In the coming months, the impact of the 
government’s tax collection measures should become clearer;
• 
Inflation expectations are falling due to lower current inflation and the 
CMN’s decision to keep the target at 3.0%. We reduced our IPCA 
forecast to 4.7% from 4.9% for 2023 and to 4.1% from 4.5% for 2024.
• 
The BRL has recently reached its strongest level in more than one year. 
We kept our forecasts at BRL/USD 5.00 YE 2023 and BRL/USD 5.15 
YE 2024, with some downward bias.
• 
Better inflation outlook reinforces our scenario of 25-bps rate cut in 
August and 50-bps cuts at subsequent meetings. We reduced our Selic 
rate forecast for 2024 to 10.50% from 11.00%. At the same time, we 
see medium-term inflationary risks, particularly due to the expansionary 
bias of fiscal policy.
XP Forecasts
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 (F)
2024 (F)
GDP growth (%)
1.2
-3.3
5.0
2.9
2.2
1.0
Unemployment rate (% s.a., end of period)
11.5
14.7
11.7
8.3
8.5
9.0
IPCA (CPI, 12m, %)
4.3
4.5
10.1
5.8
4.7
4.1
SELIC rate (% p.y., end of period)
4.50
2.00
9.25
13.75
12.00
10.50
FX (USDBRL, end of period)
4.03
5.20
5.58
5.28
5.00
5.15
Central government primary balance (% GDP)
-1.2
-9.8
-0.4
0.5
-1.2
-0.8
Public sector primary balance (% GDP)
-1.0
-9.3
0.7
1.2
-1.0
-0.6
Gross debt (% GDP)
74.3
86.9
78.8
73.5
76.3
79.2
Trade Balance (USD Bn)
35.2
50.4
61.4
61.7
73.0
64.5
Exports (USD Bn)
221.1
209.2
280.8
334.4
360.5
358.1
Imports (USD Bn)
185.9
158.8
219.4
272.7
287.5
293.6
Current Account (USD Bn)
-68.0
-28.2
-46.4
-55.7
-40.0
-48.0
Current Account (% GDP)
-3.6
-1.9
-2.8
-2.9
-1.8
-2.2
FDI (USD Bn)
69.2
37.8
46.4
90.6
80.0
75.0
FDI (% GDP)
3.7
2.6
2.8
4.8
3.7
3.4
Nominal GDP (USD Tri)
1.873
1.475
1.649
1.919
2.174
2.223
Nominal GDP (BRL Tri)
7.389
7.610
8.899
9.915
10.543
11.112
Source: IBGE, BCB, Bloomberg, XP.

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
Foreword – Inflation expectations, the key element for the Central 
Bank, are finally falling
The most important news for the Brazilian economy recently is that inflation expectations inverted its upward trend. This 
opens room for monetary policy to be sustainably less restrictive going forward.
Part of this movement is due to a benign global environment for Brazil. The global economy is rebalancing after the 
pandemic, which means that interest rates are approaching its peak, and commodity prices should be more stable ahead. 
Inflows for emerging markets increased, helping the BRL to appreciate some 10% year to date.
The other part is related to things that did not happen domestically (that would worsen the scenario). Structural reforms 
approved in recent years were not reverted. The central bank remains independent. The Monetary Council did not raise the 
inflation target, which remains at 3.0% for 2024 and beyond. Quasi-fiscal policy, particularly subsidized credit from BNDES, 
remain limited.
Risks, however, persist. Fiscal policy is and will be expansionary, considering all the measures the government has 
announced, such as a package of public investment and a program to subsided vehicles. Petrobras reduced gasoline prices 
beyond what would be justified by international prices. Those issues should not revert the positive momentum but may 
jeopardize the medium-term equilibrium of the economy.
Thus, we tend to be careful with the space for lower interest rates ahead. We reduced of 2024 IPCA forecast from 4.5% to 
4.1% and our terminal Selic rate from 11.00% to 10.50% - still above the market consensus.
2

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
Global backdrop: Global inflation is 
finally declining, but DM Central 
Banks are not done yet
Francisco Nobre
In the United States, the Fed paused its tightening cycle at its 
June meeting, although signaling that the committee intends to 
raise rates somewhat further. On the one hand, we believe that 
there are more signs that the disinflationary process is advancing 
than the Fed is recognizing: (1) producer price inflation has 
dropped materially, (2) services inflation, the Fed´s primary 
concern, has started to show much softer monthly variations, and 
(3) price data has started to surprise expectations to the 
downside. On the other hand, economic activity has been much 
more resilient than expected despite tight financial conditions, 
and the labor market remains very tight. These factors can add 
inflationary pressures ahead.
Overall, we believe that the “still hot although cooling” state of the 
US economy should be consistent with a pause to observe how 
the economy reacts to the significant amount of aggregate 
tightening already delivered. Our base case scenario remains 
that the Fed will not resume its tightening cycle and will keep the 
upper bound of the Fed Funds rate stable at 5.25% until yearend, 
and rates will have to remain restrictive for longer. However, we 
recognize that the Fed may still hike a little more, given the 
members´ hawkish tone amid lingering high inflation. It is a close 
call, and this decision will depend on the labor market and 
inflation data to be published before the next meeting.
The end tightening cycle is further away for European central 
banks. In the Eurozone, the ECB appears to be approaching the 
end of its tightening cycle, although the stickiness of core inflation 
will probably force rate hikes in the next two meetings. 
Meanwhile, in the UK, core inflation has unexpectedly continued 
a strong upward trend, and the BoE has reaccelerated its hiking 
pace and will likely have to continue its tightening cycle until the 
end of the year. In all, monetary policy is expected to remain 
restrictive for longer in developed countries. We still expect these 
economies to enter a mild recession, although this event will 
likely be delayed until the end of 2023 or the beginning of 2024.
China´s 5% growth target is under threat, and expansionary 
policies might not be enough. Despite China´s economic 
reopening, the acceleration in activity has been underwhelming 
so far. Consumption is accelerating amid high levels of pent-up 
demand, although the real estate and external sectors have 
disappointed. Policymakers have returned to stimulus, although 
these measures may be insufficient to compensate for the recent 
weakness. The central bank has cut interest rates, although there 
is limited space for further easing given the weaker CHY. On the 
fiscal side, additional support has been announced for specific 
industries, such as autos, and infrastructure investment will likely 
increase. Still, given constraints on the extent of these stimuli, 
these measures are likely to stabilize but not boost growth.
3

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
Commodity prices are stabilizing at a sweet spot for Latin 
American economies. Due to the rebalancing of global supply 
and demand, and China´s weaker-than-expected recovery, 
commodity prices seem to be stabilizing at (not excessively) high 
levels. In fact, Brent oil prices fell below USD 72 per barrel for the 
first time since December 2021. This should be favorable for the 
global disinflation process, and, at the same time, continue 
benefiting countries that are net commodity exporters.
The disinflationary process in Latin America is gaining ground 
and central banks are trying to find the correct time to start cutting 
interest rates. Consumer price inflation is slowly but surely 
decelerating in most countries in the region, with the core 
measure showing clearer signs of relief. Central banks are more 
confident that inflation is now trending down and will likely start 
cutting rates in the next few months, albeit gradually at first, given 
that inflation continues well above target. We believe the next 
countries to start their easing cycles will be Chile (July), Brazil 
(August), and Peru (August), while rate cuts may have to wait a 
bit longer in Colombia (October or December) and Mexico 
(November).
BRAZIL: Copom to cut, but keeping the 
guard up
Economic Activity – the gradual deceleration 
carries on
Rodolfo Margato
Employment and income show signs of moderation… The 
unemployment rate is slightly above 8%, according to our 
estimates, with the decline in the labor force participation rate 
offsetting the cooling of the employed population. Meanwhile, the 
recovery in real labor earnings – significant throughout 2022 – 
has been losing steam. We maintain the scenario of a mild 
deceleration in the Brazilian labor market this year.
… but the prospects for consumption remain better than initially 
projected. Higher government cash transfers, particularly the 
“Bolsa-Família” welfare program, and the easing of inflation 
should further support household consumption in the short term. 
The increase in consumer confidence, which, in June, reached 
its highest level in more than four years, corroborates that 
scenario.
The outlook for investments is more challenging. Tight financial 
conditions and high indebtedness weigh on the demand for 
capital goods and consumer durable goods. Credit concessions 
fell considerably last semester, especially in the corporate 
segment. The weakening of the manufacturing industry, civil 
construction, and part of retail (more sensitive to credit) should 
persist in the coming months.
Our expectation for 2023 GDP growth continues at 2.2%. The 
strong performance of the sectors less sensitive to the economic 
cycle in the first half – especially agriculture, driven by the record
4

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
grain harvest – and the resilience of consumption is likely to allow 
an annual GDP well above initial projections, despite the cooling 
that is expected from now on.
In turn, 2024 GDP is expected to grow by 1%, although we 
recognize the high degree of uncertainty. GDP should advance 
moderately next year, in line with the slightly negative statistical 
carry-over effect from late 2023, the dissipation of the positive 
shock in agriculture, and the “post-Covid” impulses (particularly 
benefiting the services sector). That said, there are important 
sources of uncertainty surrounding our projections for domestic 
activity. Among them, we highlight: (i) the pace of deceleration of 
the global economy; (ii) the intensity of the monetary easing that 
should start in the current quarter; and (iii) possible short-term 
government stimulus measures, including quasi-fiscal policies.
Public finance – Hoping for higher tax collection
Tiago Sbardelotto
May's fiscal results recorded the worst performance since 2020. 
Despite tax collection growing 2.9% YoY in real terms, the central 
government registered a deficit of BRL 45 billion in May, the 
second lowest for the month in the historical series. In turn, the 
public sector printed a deficit of BRL 50.2 billion, with states and 
municipalities reaching a deficit of BRL 6.8 billion, the worst 
historical performance for the month.
Measures included in our baseline scenario
2023
BRL Billion
Measure
Gov.
Collected
by May
XP
Return of PIS/Cofins on financial revenues
5
2
5
Exclusion of ICMS credits from PIS/Cofins base
30
0
30
Reversal of PIS/Cofins exemption on fuels
23
3
24
Spontaneous reporting program
20
0
2
Litigation reduction program
50
2
5
PIS/Pasep Fund
26
0
26
Online bets taxation
6
0
0
Exclusion of ICMS subsides from IRPJ/CSLL base
80
0
0
E-commerce taxation
4
0
1
Transfer pricing
17
0
2
Taxation on foreign investments
3
0
4
Crude oil export tax
7
1
5
Total
270
8
104
The upcoming readings will be key to assessing the 
effectiveness of government measures on the revenues front. So 
far, the measures announced by the government have shown 
little impact. In the coming months, the full return of PIS/Cofins 
on gasoline and ethanol and the withdrawal of ICMS credits from 
the PIS/Cofins base, two measures presented at the beginning 
of the year, should show their first effects.
Source: XP, Ministry of Finance. *Annualized impact. **Estimates for the total stock of benefits excluded from the 
tax base
We maintain our deficit forecast of BRL 121.9 billion (-1.2% of 
GDP) this year. However, considering the pooling of resources 
between BRL 20 billion and BRL 30 billion, the deficit could fall 
to less than BRL 100 billion, in line with the informal target 
defined by the Ministry of Finance (-1.0% of GDP).
Even with changes in the fiscal framework, spending will still 
grow much above inflation. Our estimate indicates that the 
expenditure limit for 2024 should grow 1.5% above inflation. 
However, the framework allows the government to increase the 
spending limit through additional credit of 2.5% in real terms. The 
evolution of revenue in the coming months will also provide room 
for spending growth of 2.5% above inflation in 2025.
For 2024, we adjusted our deficit forecast from BRL 105.9 billion 
(1.0% of GDP) to BRL 86.7 billion (0.8% of GDP). The change 
mainly reflects the reduction in expected inflation for this year, 
which should result in a smaller expansion of the expenditure 
limit next year, in addition to updating the impacts of some 
measures included in our scenario. Despite the improvement, the 
result remains below the neutral primary result target.
5

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
For the public sector, we changed our deficit estimate from BRL 
99.5 billion (0.9%) to BRL 104.2 billion (1.0%). We revised 
downwards our estimates for states and municipalities on the 
back of lower-than-expected recent results. We expect a 
recovery in the coming months due to changes in gasoline 
taxation, but not enough to revert this trend. For 2024, we now 
estimate a deficit of BRL 69.3 billion (0.6% of GDP) from BRL 
82.0 billion (0.8% of GDP) in the previous month.
Public debt remains on the rise. We estimate gross general 
government debt for 2023 and 2024 at 76.3% and 79.2%, 
respectively. Primary deficit and low nominal GDP growth (due 
to falling inflation) contribute to that trend. In our view, the new 
fiscal framework – that is about to be approved in Congress – 
does not stabilize debt/GDP anytime soon. The growth rate, 
however, should eventually decelerate as the primary deficit 
narrows in the years to come.
Tax reform is the next important event. The discussion on tax 
reform should gain momentum. The initial report brought a dual 
VAT (one federal VAT and one VAT for states and 
municipalities), destination-based taxation with a 5-year 
transition for consumers and 50 years for subnational entities and 
the implementation of a standard rate, with exceptions related to 
healthcare, education, and other sectors, which will have a 
reduced rate (50% of the standard rate), in addition to the 
possibility of a zero rate for some specific items. The fiscal impact 
of the measure should be neutral at first, but there are gains in 
potential growth.
Inflation – falling expectations
Alexandre Maluf
We reduced our 2023 forecast to 4.7% from 4.9%... Petrobras 
announced a 5.6% cut in gasoline and 3.9% in GLP (cooking 
gas) to distributors on June 30th, which causes, in our view, a 
permanent effect in this year's inflation of 0.14pp. In addition, we 
project an additional deflation of new and used car prices after 
the announcement of an extra BRL 300 million for the 
government's incentive program for the automobile sector, and 
we reduced the projection of inflation for food and other 
industrialized items, considering the recent benign dynamics.
IGP-M 
deflation 
reinforces 
short-term 
consumer 
price 
disinflation... The deflation of producer costs supports the benign 
scenario for short-term consumer price inflation. The agricultural 
IPA accumulated a drop of 15% in the interannual variation that 
ended in June, while the industrial component retreated by 9%. 
For the year, market expectations for the IGP-M point to a 
deflation of around 2%.
Services inflation remains the main concern. We project that it 
will end 2023 at around 6%, above the inflation target (see table 
below). Despite the recent volatility, labor-intensive services 
prices showed some relief in the June IPCA-15. We expect a 
gradual deceleration in this metric and in core services in the 
coming quarters, in line with our perspective of a cooling-down 
labor market.
6

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
2024
IPCA Groups (annual change, %)
2023
For 2024, we revised our forecast to 4.1% from 4.5%. Lower 
inertia and the adjustment of inflation expectations for the coming 
years are the underlying assumptions for our revision. The 
decision by the National Monetary Council (CMN) to maintain the 
inflation target from 2024 onwards at 3.0% was relevant in this 
regard. However, the expansionary bias of fiscal policy made us 
skeptical about the complete convergence of inflation next year. 
Moreover, volatile groups, such as food and industrial goods, 
which have retreated a lot this year, may show a rebound in 
2024.
Prior
Current
Prior
Current
Monitored prices
8.8
8.3
5.8
5.4
Market-set prices
3.6
3.5
4.1
3.7
   Food at home
0.8
0.7
3.6
3.2
   Industrials
2.2
2.0
3.9
3.4
   Services
5.8
5.8
4.4
4.1
IPCA
4.9
4.7
4.5
4.1
External Accounts – solid trade balance and 
exchange rate reduction
Rodolfo Margato
Current exchange rate levels are close to those suggested by 
economic 
fundamentals. 
The 
Brazilian 
exchange 
rate 
appreciated by 5% between the end of May and the end of June 
(from BRL/USD 5.05 to BRL/USD 4.80, approximately). Our 
estimates already pointed to an appreciation of the Brazilian Real 
in the short term, in line with the US dollar weakening, 
stabilization of commodity prices at still high levels, massive 
trade flows (especially exports of agricultural goods) and lower 
perception of domestic risk with the announcement and 
processing of the new fiscal framework. For now, we maintain 
our projections for the exchange rate at BRL/USD 5.00 YE 2023 
and BRL/USD 5.15 YE 2024, although assigning a downward 
bias. According to our calculations, recent exchange rate levels 
are not far from those suggested by economic fundamentals 
(between BRL/USD 4.45 and BRL/USD 4.70).
Robust external accounts, with emphasis on the trade balance. 
The outlook for the Brazilian balance of payments remains 
positive, with no relevant changes in the recent period. The trade 
balance recorded a surplus of nearly USD 10 billion in May, an 
all-time high on a monthly basis. Exports have risen significantly 
(mainly of primary goods), while imports have been slowing. 
Therefore, we continue to anticipate that the current account will 
reach USD -40.0 billion at the end of 2023 (-1.8% of GDP), after 
registering USD -55.7 billion at the end of 2022 (-2.9% of GDP) 
and USD -48.5 billion based on the 12-month rolling sum up to 
May (-2.4% of GDP). In turn, net inflows in FDI – Foreign Direct 
Investment – remain at elevated levels: USD 83.4 billion in the 
12 months through May (4.2% of GDP), well above the amount 
of USD 57.0 billion seen a year earlier (3.2% of GDP). We 
forecast net inflows of USD 80.0 billion at the end of 2023 (3.7% 
of GDP) after USD 90.6 billion at the end of 2022 (4.8% of GDP), 
reflecting the slowdown in domestic activity and corporate 
profitability.
Monetary Policy – the central bank’s effort is 
paying off; the next move should be a cut
Caio Megale
7

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
The inflation outlook continues to improve. Producer prices 
(measured by IPA-M) fell 10% year on year in June, reflecting 
global cost-push deflation and the stronger BRL. Domestic 
demand is weakening, despite the increase in fiscal transfers. 
And the inflation target was ultimately confirmed at 3.0%.
This improvement reflects the persistence of the Central Bank in 
fighting inflation. The Copom resisted the political pressures and 
kept focusing on bringing inflation to the target path. The effort is 
finally paying off. Medium term inflation expectations are falling, 
reverting the upward trend seen in the first semester (see chart 
on inflation section above).
We believe that this evolution reinforces room for a gradual 
monetary policy flexibilization, which is currently at a significantly 
restrictive level. Thus, we keep our scenario (held since April) 
that the Copom will cut the Selic rate by 25 bps in August and cut 
50-bps at subsequent meetings.
Having said that, we still see medium term inflationary risks, 
particularly due to the expansionary bias of fiscal policy. 
Moreover, part of the current disinflation is concentrated in 
volatile items, which could kick back next year. As a result, we 
forecast IPCA inflation still above the 3.0% target ahead (see 
inflation section above).
Against this backdrop, we are more cautious than the market on 
the extent of monetary easing ahead. We adjusted our terminal 
Selic rate to 10.50% from 11.00% in line with lower inflation 
expectations, keeping roughly the same expected real interest 
rate. Future markets are currently pricing at around 9.00%.
8

---

Macro Research 
July 5, 2023
Disclaimer 
 
1) This report was prepared by XP Investimentos CCTVM S.A. ("XP Investimentos or XP") according to the requirements provided in CVM Resolution 20/2021 and 
aims to provide information that can help the investors make their own investment decisions, and does not constitute any kind of offer or purchase request and/or 
sale of any product. The information contained in this report is considered valid on the date of disclosure and has been obtained from public sources. XP Investimentos 
is not liable for any decisions made by the customer based on this report.
2) This report was prepared considering the product risk classification in order to generate allocation results for each investor profile.
3) All of the views expressed in this research report accurately reflect the research analyst’s personal views regarding any and all of the subject securities or issuers. 
No part of analyst(s) compensation was, is or will be, directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this research report.
4) The signatory of this report declare that the recommendations reflect solely and exclusively their personal analyses and opinions, which have been produced 
independently, including in relation to XP Investimentos and which are subject to modifications without notice due to changes in market conditions, and that their 
remuneration are indirectly affected by revenue from business and financial transactions carried out by XP Investimentos.
5) The analyst responsible for the content of this report and the compliance with CVM Resolution 20/2021 is indicated above, and, in the event of an indication of 
another analyst in the report, the person responsible will be the first accredited analyst to be mentioned in Report.
6) XP Investimentos’ analysts are obligated to comply with all the rules laid down in the APIMEC’s conduct code for the securities analyst and XP Investimentos’ 
analyst of securities conduct policy.
7) Customer service is carried out by XP Investimentos employees or by autonomous investment agents who perform their activities through XP, in accordance with 
CVM Resolution 16/2021, which are registered in the national association of brokers and distributors of securities (“ANCORD”). The autonomous agent of investment 
may not provide consulting, administration or management of customer net worth, and must act as an intermediary and request prior authorization from the client for 
the realization of any operation in the capital market.
8) The products presented in this report may not be suitable for all types of customer. Before making any decisions, customers should ensure that the products 
presented are suitable for their investor profile. This material does not suggest any change of portfolio, but only guidance on products suitable to a certain investor 
profile.
9) The profitability of financial products may present variations and their price or value may increase or decrease in a short period of time. Past performance is not 
necessarily indicative of future results. Performance disclosed is not net of any applicable taxes. The information present in this material is based on simulations and 
the actual results may be significantly different.
10) This report is intended exclusively for to the XP Investimentos’ network, including independent XP agents and XP customers, and may also be released on XP’s 
website. It is prohibited to reproduce or redistribute this report to any person, in whole or in part, whatever the purpose, without the prior express consent of XP 
Investimentos.
11) XP Investimentos’ ombudsman has the mission to serve as a contact channel whenever customers who do not feel satisfied with the solutions given by the 
company to their problems. The contact can be made via telephone 0800 722 3710 if you are in Brazil or via ombudsman form if you are in other localities: 
ttps://institucional.xpi.com.br/ouvidoria.aspx/.
12) The cost of the transactions billing policies are defined in the operational cost tables which are made available on XP Investimentos website: www.xpi.com.br.
13) XP Investimentos is exempt from any liability for any damages, direct or indirect, that come from the use of this report or its contents.
14) Technical analysis and fundamental analysis follow different methodologies. Technical analysis is performed following concepts such as trends, support, 
resistance, candles, volume, and moving averages, amongst others. Fundamental analysis uses as information the results disseminated by the issuing companies 
and their projections. In this way, the opinions of fundamental analysts, who seek the best returns given the market conditions, the macroeconomic scenario and the 
specific events of the company and the sector, may differ from the opinions of technical analysts, which aim to Identify the most likely movements on asset prices, 
using "stops" limit possible losses.
15) Investment in stocks is appropriate for moderate and aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. Equity 
investments available are portion a company’s capital that is traded on the market. Stock is a variable financial investment (i.e. an investment in which profitability is 
not pre-established and varies depending on market quotations). Investment in stock is a high-risk investment and past performance is not necessarily indicative of 
future results and no statement or warranty, expressed or implied, is made in this material in relation to future performance. Market conditions, macroeconomic 
scenario, company and sector specific events can affect investment performance and may even result in significant asset losses. The recommended duration for 
equity investments is medium-long term. There is no guarantee of investment return for customers’ investments in stock.
16) Investment in options is preferably indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. In options market, 
the purchase or sale rights of a good shall be negotiated at a price fixed at a future date, and the purchaser of the negotiated duty should pay a premium to the seller 
as in a secure agreement. Operations with these derivatives are considered very high risk for presenting high risk and return relationships and some positions 
present the possibility of losses higher than the capital invested. The recommended duration for the investment is short-term and the customer's assets are not 
guaranteed in this type of product.
17) Investment in terms is indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. They are contracts for the 
purchase or sale of a certain number of shares at a fixed price for settlement within a specified period. The term of the contract is freely chosen by the investors, 
complying with the minimum period of 16 days and a maximum of 999 days. The price will be the value of the added share of a portion corresponding to the interest-
which are set freely on the market, depending on the term of the contract. Every transaction in the term requires a guarantee deposit. These guarantees are provided 
in two forms: coverage or margin.
18) Investments in futures markets are subject to significant loss of principal, and are therefore appropriate for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability 
policies practiced by XP Investimentos. A commodity is an object or price determinant of a future contract or other derivative instrument, which may substantiate an 
index, a fee, a movable value or a physical product. Commodities are considered high risk investments, which include the possibility of price fluctuation due to the 
use of financial leverage. The recommended duration for commodity investments is short-term and customers’ assets are not guaranteed in this type of product. 
Market conditions and the macroeconomic scenario can affect the performance investments.
19) This institution is adhering ANBIMA Code of Regulation and best practices for the distribution activity of retail investment products.
20) XP Investments US, LLC, a broker-dealer registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has assumed responsibility for this research for 
purposes of U.S. law. All transactions arising from this research should be directed to XP Investments US, LLC, at+1 646-664-0525
9