September 6, 2023
Macro Research
Brazil Macro Monthly
Renewed fiscal concerns, while GDP surprises again
• 
US Treasury yields increased significantly over the past month, 
affecting global asset prices. Despite uncertainties remaining high, we 
continue to believe that the Fed will not hike rates further this year and 
will cut to 4.0% by 2024 yearend.
Caio Megale 
Chief Economist 
 
Andres Pardo 
Chief Latam Strategist 
 
Rodolfo Margato 
Economist 
 
Tiago Sbardelotto 
Economist 
 
Alexandre Maluf 
Economist 
 
Francisco Nobre 
Economist 
 
Luiza Pineze 
Intern 
 
Contact 
economiaxp@xpi.com.br
• 
In Brazil, GDP grew above market expectations in Q2, with a favorable 
breakdown. As a result, we raised our projections for economic growth 
in 2023 (from 2.2% to 2.8%) and 2024 (from 1.0% to 1.5%).
• 
We estimate a deficit of 0.9% and 0.7% for the public sector in 2023 and 
2024, respectively. The 2024 budget brings great uncertainty regarding 
revenue measures, and we see the primary result target at risk of 
change.
• 
The BRL depreciation in recent weeks reflected both domestic and 
global factors. Nonetheless, our projections for the exchange rate 
remain unchanged at BRL/USD 4.70 for YE 2023 and BRL/USD 4.85 
for YE 2024.
• 
The latest inflation readings surprised to the upside, but the breakdown 
remains benign. We kept our IPCA projections at 4.8% for 2023 and 
3.9% for 2024.
• 
Given the GDP and IPCA figures above expectations, Copom should 
maintain the 50bps pace over the next meetings. Rising interest rates 
in the US and domestic fiscal uncertainty limit the room for cuts in 2024. 
We project the Selic rate at 11.75% in 2023YE and 10.00% in 2024YE.

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
Foreword – Fiscal debate back in the spotlight in the US and Brazil
August was a turbulent month for asset prices due to the significant rise in US long-term bond yields. The main 
reason is fiscal uncertainty, amid high debt and growing public deficit since the pandemic.
The perspective of a populist electoral race in 2024 reduces the chance of adjustment measures to ensure the 
sustainability of public accounts. Thus, it seems unlikely that this risk will dissipate in the short term.
In Brazil, the fiscal debate also took center stage with the submission of the 2024 budget bill to Congress. 
Considering the elevated expense level established by government policies, the measures needed to increase 
revenue and balance the budget are as significant as they are uncertain. Especially those that require legislative 
approval.
Fiscal uncertainty and high interest rates abroad tend to keep medium-term inflation expectations above the 
target, limiting the space for rate cut reductions in 2024. For this reason, we have kept an above-consensus 
terminal Selic rate forecast.
The easing cycle should continue at a pace of 50 bps per Copom meeting – not faster, given that inflation has 
been in line with expectations while GDP, once again, surprised on the upside.
Therefore, we revised our GDP growth forecast from 2.2% to 2.8% this year, and from 1.0% to 1.5% in 2024.
2

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
Global backdrop: higher US long-term 
rates hit asset prices.
Francisco Nobre
Aggressive upward shift in US rates. August was marked 
by a large increase in Treasury yields, especially those with 
long term maturities (graph). The increase can be 
attributed to (1) the more resilient than expected economic 
activity, (2) the possibility that the neutral interest rate will 
be higher going forward, and (3) concerns regarding the 
growing fiscal deficit in the US. The latter is likely the main 
reason, as the fiscal deficit this year is the highest in history 
when excluding periods of significant economic shocks, 
such as the 2008 financial crisis and the pandemic. An 
improvement is not expected anytime soon, especially 
because the electoral process is approaching and tends to 
be dominated by populist debates. In our view, treasury 
yields seem excessively high at current levels, although we 
agree that interest rates will likely be higher post pandemic.
We continue to see the Fed Funds rate at current levels 
until 24Q2. Despite uncertainties remaining high, we 
continue to believe that the Fed will not hike rates further 
this year. On the one hand, the Fed´s job is not done yet, 
given that inflation will end this year above the 2% target 
(likely at around 3.5%). Still, financial conditions are 
becoming increasingly restrictive and recent data show that 
the disinflation process has continued to advance, labor 
market conditions have started to soften, and the economy 
is decelerating (graph). Unless inflation picks up again, we 
see no need for further tightening.
We see a gradual easing in 2024. Market pricing has been 
volatile on the beginning and intensity of the easing cycle.  
We remain confident on our call that rate cuts will start on 
the third meeting of 2024, ending the year at 4.0%.
China's economy to grow at lower levels going forward. 
Economic activity did not pick up expected after the Covid-
related reopening. The government has made fiscal and 
monetary stimulus more frequent in order to compensate 
for the recent weakness. These factors may support 
China's economy and counter the deflation issue, although 
the overall stimulus is likely not sufficiently proactive to 
materially boost aggregate demand amid an environment 
of weak consumer and investor confidence. The property 
sector and the external sector, which were the main drivers 
to China's growth over the past decades, may be 
approaching a steady state. Thus, growth drivers tend to 
shift towards consumption, and GDP will likely expand 
(considerably) below 5% per year.
LatAm currencies gave back a good portion of their positive 
performance from the first half of 2023. In the first half of
3

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
the year, exchange rates in most countries of the region 
appreciated against the USD and outperformed other 
emerging market currencies. Nevertheless, FX markets 
have had a negative performance over the past month in 
all countries of the region. The recent movement reflects 
(1) falling long term interest rate differentials with the 
United States, (2) weaker than expected performance of 
China´s economy, and (3) strengthening USD amid still 
elevated global risk aversion and renewed expectations of 
more resilient US growth outlook in the short-term. Going 
forward, these factors will likely continue influencing FX 
dynamics, although we believe that Latam currencies are 
once again in undervalued territory.
Higher commodity prices is good news for Latin America, 
although threatens global disinflation. Commodity prices 
remain volatile, although remaining elevated compared to 
pre-pandemic levels.  The CRB all commodities index 
reached its highest level since June 2022, while Brent oil 
prices hit USD 88 per barrel, its highest level since 
November 2022. The recent trend adds risk to the global 
disinflation 
process, 
although 
it 
tends 
to 
benefit 
commodities exporters.
BRAZIL: Renewed fiscal concerns, 
while GDP surprises again
Economic Activity – We raised our projections 
for GDP growth in 2023 (2.8%) and 2024 
(1.5%)
Rodolfo Margato
GDP grew above expectations in the 2nd quarter, with a 
0.9% increase against Q1 2023, surpassing most 
estimations (XP: 0.5%; Street: 0.3%). The breakdown 
brought encouraging signs, as virtually all sectors grew in 
the period. Activities less sensitive to the economic cycle, 
such as Agriculture and Livestock, and Mining stood out. 
The services sector has also been sustaining the economy, 
as it presented the 12th consecutive quarter of growth.
We have raised our projection for 2023 GDP from 2.2% to 
2.8%. The upcoming quarterly GDP releases are expected 
to show weak results, largely due to the easing of the 
positive shock from agricultural output. We estimate a 
slight drop of 0.2% for GDP in the 3rd quarter compared to 
the previous quarter (an increase of 1.9% YoY). 
Nevertheless, the strong performance in the first half of the 
year – coupled with favorable indicators – should ensure 
an annual growth rate close to what was observed in 2022.
4

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
Recent activity data, such as employment and income, 
reinforce a “soft landing” scenario. The unemployment rate 
remains below 8%, in line with the increase in the employed 
population (though slowing down) and the labor force 
participation rate stands well below pre-pandemic levels. 
However, we have not seen significant wage pressures. 
According to the National Household Sample Survey 
(PNAD Contínua, in Portuguese), real average labor 
earnings remained nearly stable between December 2022 
and July 2023. From our perspective, the recent dynamics 
of the labor market combined with massive fiscal stimulus 
support the outlook for a smooth slowdown in domestic 
demand, particularly the resilience of consumption. We 
anticipate that real household disposable income will grow 
by around 4.5% this year, including a 25% increase in 
social protection transfers.
For 2024 GDP growth, our projection rose from 1% to 
1.5%. The signs of strength in Services GDP are behind 
our bullish revision for the 2024 GDP. That said, we have 
maintained the scenario of more moderate economic 
growth compared to the current year. Among other factors, 
we highlight: (i) the smaller contribution from sectors less 
sensitive to economic policy – we calculate that Agriculture 
& Livestock and Mining Industry, together, will account for 
1.2pp of the projected 2.8% increase in total GDP this year, 
well above the estimated impact for the following year; (ii) 
reduced fiscal stimulus; (iii) labor market stabilization; (iv) 
a slowdown in global activity, especially in developed 
economies; and (v) null statistical carry-over effect from 
2023 GDP. Furthermore, the improvement in credit 
conditions is expected to be gradual, as monetary policy 
remains in a contractionary stance (as discussed in the last 
section of this report).
Public finance – Discussion on the primary 
balance target should continue
Tiago Sbardelotto
Primary deficit inched up in July. The public sector 
registered a BRL 35.8 billion deficit in July, much lower than 
the BRL 20.4 billion surplus posted in the same month of 
the previous year. July´s result is explained by the 
combination of a loss in revenue collection - particularly 
non-tax revenues such as concessions and dividends, but 
also corporate income taxes (IRPJ/CSLL) - and increased 
spending with social security, social assistance, and the 
Bolsa Família welfare program.
We raised our Central Government's primary deficit 
estimate in 2023 from BRL 108.5 billion (1.0% of GDP) to 
BRL 110.6 billion (1.0% of GDP). On the one hand, the
5

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
change reflects the fall in the estimated revenue measures 
this year, particularly the exclusion of ICMS from the 
PIS/Cofins tax base (which has been fairing much lower 
than expected) and the reduction of IRPJ/CSLL revenues. 
This effect is partially offset by gains in social security 
revenues and reductions in estimates of some expenses, 
such as personnel, Bolsa Família, and discretionary 
expenses.
The forecast for 2024 improved marginally. We expected a 
deficit of BRL 107.8 (-1.0%) for the Central government. 
However, due to the stronger GDP growth expected for the 
year, we now estimate BRL 99.8 billion (0.9% of GDP). We 
did not account for a significant part of the measures 
included in the budget sent to Congress – given expected 
political resistance and high uncertainty about potential 
revenue collection.
The expected consolidated public sector (including states, 
municipalities, and state-owned companies) worsened 
slightly for 2023. We now project a deficit of BRL 96.3 
billion, or 0.9% of GDP (from BRL 92.6 billion previously). 
In addition to the worsening of central government’s result 
mentioned above, we also reduced the projected results for 
states and municipalities, which have presented worse 
than expected performance so far this year. For 2024, we 
adjusted our deficit projection from BRL 83.8 billion (0.7% 
of GDP) to BRL 80.8 billion (0.7% of GDP), mainly due to 
a lower deficit expected from the central government.
Higher GDP, (slightly) lower debt. The improvement in the 
GDP forecast (see the economic activity section) led us to 
reduce the projection for general government's gross debt 
(GGGD) to 75.2% of GDP in 2023 (75.6% before) and 
78.1% in 2024 (78.8% before). Despite the short-term 
improvement short term, public debt is expected to 
continue growing in the coming years – on the back of 
recurring primary deficits forecasted ahead.
The 2024 budget remains “up in the air”. The discussion of 
the 2024 budget signaled that achieving the primary target 
is unlikely. A significant part of the measures presented by 
the government requires Congress approval, most of which 
will face political resistance or are expected to 
underperform. We also note around BRL 44.4 billion 
projected for concessions revenues, a volume much higher 
than the historical average (see table).
To change or not to change the target? Given this scenario, 
the government will be faced with two options: 1) try to 
meet the target, which will likely entail a mandatory 
spending freeze (around BRL 54 billion, as per our 
estimates), reaching as close as possible to the zero result, 
but compromising the budget execution and still having to 
cut expenses in 2025 and 2026; or 2) change the target. In
6

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
our view, the ideal scenario would be to pursue the target, 
even if it is not possible to achieve it, which would 
strengthen the new fiscal framework as an adjustment 
mechanism over time. However, we believe that this 
discussion will resurface in the coming months – by when 
we understand there’s a strong likelihood that the 
government will change the target, if the revenue boosting 
measures are not approved.
External Accounts – Exchange rate projection 
remains at BRL/USD 4.70 for 2023, despite 
high volatility
Rodolfo Margato
The BRL depreciation in recent weeks has reflected both 
domestic and global factors. The Brazilian exchange rate 
rose from approximately BRL/USD 4.75 in early August to 
BRL/USD 4.95 in early September. In our view, this 
movement reflects increased risk perception, both abroad 
and in Brazil. On the international front, we highlight rising 
interest rates in the United States – particularly in longer-
term treasuries – and growing concerns about Chinese 
economic growth. On the domestic front, increasing fiscal 
uncertainty rose again to the forefront, stemming from 2024 
budget discussions (as detailed above).
We maintained our exchange rate projections at BRL/USD 
4.70 for YE 2023 and BRL/USD 4.85 for YE 2024. We 
believe some of the recent global risks should ease over 
the coming months, leading the Brazilian currency to 
appreciate. Our econometric modeling suggests that the 
“fair value” for the Brazilian FX – in line with economic 
fundamentals – lies between BRL/USD 4.50 and BRL/USD 
4.90.
Balance of payments remains robust despite net FDI 
inflows (Foreign Direct Investment) below expectations. 
The trade balance will likely post a record surplus this year, 
both due to the increase in export quantum (mainly primary 
goods) and the decline in imports prices. Accordingly, we 
project a current account deficit of USD 45.0 billion at the 
end of this year (-2.1% of GDP) - considerably below the 
historical average (around -3.0% of GDP). Meanwhile, net 
FDI inflows have been disappointing in recent months, 
reflecting lower corporate profitability compared to 2022. 
Therefore, we have lifted our estimate for FDI in 2023, from 
USD 75.0 billion (3.4% of GDP) to USD 70.0 billion (3.2% 
of GDP). Our forecasts for 2024 remained unchanged: 
current account balance of -USD 48.0 billion (-2.0% of 
GDP) and FDI totaling USD 73.5 billion (3.1% of GDP).
7

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
Inflation – Under the volatile surface, short-term 
inflation continues to show benign dynamics
Alexandre Maluf
IPCA readings came in above expectations, but the 
breakdown remains positive. Both the July IPCA and mid-
month August IPCA (IPCA-15) advanced above market 
expectations. However, the underlying metrics, which 
exclude volatile items or sharp fluctuations, continue to 
show a gradual disinflation trend. For instance, the 3M 
SAAR of core inflation in the IPCA-15 decreased to 3.2% 
from 3.4%. Meanwhile, the subcategory of Underlying 
Services, closely monitored by the Central Bank, cooled 
down to 4.7% from 5.0%.
Wholesale inflation continues to present negative prints. 
The latest IGP-M came in below expectations, declining by 
-0.14% MoM. For the seventh consecutive month, 
industrial PPI registered a negative variation, which will 
help CPI disinflation over the coming months. The 
agricultural PPI also remains negative on a yearly basis, 
consistent with our projection of deflation in household food 
prices in 2023, which has not happened since 2017.
How long will cost deflation last? In our scenario, we 
consider that a significant part of the global foodstuff and 
industrialized goods deflation has already been passed on 
to consumer prices over the last few months. Grain prices 
are expected to stabilize around their current level, while 
industrial goods should be affected by higher oil prices, at 
approximately USD 90 per barrel. Additionally, with 
pressures from rising interest rates in the US, the exchange 
rate has not been a short-term disinflationary factor, 
although our scenario still considers an appreciation of 
Brazilian currency to BRL 4.70 by the end of 2023 (as 
described above). Therefore, despite the recent downward 
contribution from PPIs, we do not believe that this dynamic 
could prompt further disinflation.
GDP revisions are not expected to hinder the ongoing 
disinflation... In this report, we have revised our 
expectations for the Brazilian economic growth upwards for 
2023 and 2024, as discussed in the previous sections. 
Nevertheless, we do not see stronger economic activity as 
an obstacle to the current disinflation process. Sectors that 
have recently shown more robust growth – mainly 
agriculture, livestock, and mining – are less sensitive to the 
economic cycle. Furthermore, the latest employment data 
continue to show that wage dynamics are not a concern in 
terms of inflation pressures.
Therefore, we maintain our projection of 4.8% for the 2023 
IPCA and 3.9% for 2024. We recognize that the fiscal risk 
tends to keep medium-term expectations above the target
8

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
in the upcoming months. Effectively, the Focus Report has 
been showing unanchored expectations for 2025 and 2026 
IPCA, which remain at around 3.50% - a movement largely 
explained by market's distrust in the trajectory of the 
Brazilian public debt.
Monetary Policy – Open Road this year
Caio Megale
The global effort to reduce inflation is paying off. The 
normalization of global supply chains led to significant 
producer price deflation. Decisive actions by central banks 
complement the process, ensuring that disinflation reaches 
consumer prices.
In this sense, the degree of monetary tightness in Brazil 
can be (significantly) lower going forward. We see room for 
a reduction of at least 3pp in the Selic rate, implemented 
gradually over the coming months.
The 50-pbs pace seems the safest way to ensure 
sustainable lower interest rates ahead. Inflation projections 
remain above the target for 2024 and 2025, and economic 
activity slowed down only gradually. In fact, growth 
forecasts have been revised upwards (including ours), and 
the unemployment rate remains at the lowest level since 
2015. Thus, there seems to be no rush for a front-loaded 
monetary easing.
In any event, given there is confidence in the space for 
easing, the Copom may eventually opt for two cuts of 75 
bps, rather than three 50-bps moves. For that to happen, 
we understand that inflation data must surprise to the 
downside in the coming months. This is not our base case 
scenario, but it could happen, given the effect of global cost 
deflation.
Expansionary fiscal policy at home and higher interest 
rates abroad are risks for 2024. We continue to see 
expansionary fiscal policy as a constraint for more intense 
monetary easing. Historically, public debt on an upward 
trend tends to pressure inflation expectations. In addition, 
the world discusses the risk of interest rates in developed 
countries being higher in the long term. This also tends to 
limit the scope for rate cuts in Brazil.
We keep our Selic rate forecast at 11.75% for 2023 
yearend and 10.00% in 2024.
9

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
10

---

Macro Research 
September 6, 2023
Disclaimer 
 
1) This report was prepared by XP Investimentos CCTVM S.A. ("XP Investimentos or XP") according to the requirements provided in CVM Resolution 20/2021 and 
aims to provide information that can help the investors make their own investment decisions, and does not constitute any kind of offer or purchase request and/or 
sale of any product. The information contained in this report is considered valid on the date of disclosure and has been obtained from public sources. XP Investimentos 
is not liable for any decisions made by the customer based on this report.
2) This report was prepared considering the product risk classification in order to generate allocation results for each investor profile.
3) All of the views expressed in this research report accurately reflect the research analyst’s personal views regarding any and all of the subject securities or issuers. 
No part of analyst(s) compensation was, is or will be, directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this research report.
4) The signatory of this report declare that the recommendations reflect solely and exclusively their personal analyses and opinions, which have been produced 
independently, including in relation to XP Investimentos and which are subject to modifications without notice due to changes in market conditions, and that their 
remuneration are indirectly affected by revenue from business and financial transactions carried out by XP Investimentos.
5) The analyst responsible for the content of this report and the compliance with CVM Resolution 20/2021 is indicated above, and, in the event of an indication of 
another analyst in the report, the person responsible will be the first accredited analyst to be mentioned in Report.
6) XP Investimentos’ analysts are obligated to comply with all the rules laid down in the APIMEC’s conduct code for the securities analyst and XP Investimentos’ 
analyst of securities conduct policy.
7) Customer service is carried out by XP Investimentos employees or by autonomous investment agents who perform their activities through XP, in accordance with 
CVM Resolution 16/2021, which are registered in the national association of brokers and distributors of securities (“ANCORD”). The autonomous agent of investment 
may not provide consulting, administration or management of customer net worth, and must act as an intermediary and request prior authorization from the client for 
the realization of any operation in the capital market.
8) The products presented in this report may not be suitable for all types of customer. Before making any decisions, customers should ensure that the products 
presented are suitable for their investor profile. This material does not suggest any change of portfolio, but only guidance on products suitable to a certain investor 
profile.
9) The profitability of financial products may present variations and their price or value may increase or decrease in a short period of time. Past performance is not 
necessarily indicative of future results. Performance disclosed is not net of any applicable taxes. The information present in this material is based on simulations and 
the actual results may be significantly different.
10) This report is intended exclusively for to the XP Investimentos’ network, including independent XP agents and XP customers, and may also be released on XP’s 
website. It is prohibited to reproduce or redistribute this report to any person, in whole or in part, whatever the purpose, without the prior express consent of XP 
Investimentos.
11) XP Investimentos’ ombudsman has the mission to serve as a contact channel whenever customers who do not feel satisfied with the solutions given by the 
company to their problems. The contact can be made via telephone 0800 722 3710 if you are in Brazil or via ombudsman form if you are in other localities: 
ttps://institucional.xpi.com.br/ouvidoria.aspx/.
12) The cost of the transactions billing policies are defined in the operational cost tables which are made available on XP Investimentos website: www.xpi.com.br.
13) XP Investimentos is exempt from any liability for any damages, direct or indirect, that come from the use of this report or its contents.
14) Technical analysis and fundamental analysis follow different methodologies. Technical analysis is performed following concepts such as trends, support, 
resistance, candles, volume, and moving averages, amongst others. Fundamental analysis uses as information the results disseminated by the issuing companies 
and their projections. In this way, the opinions of fundamental analysts, who seek the best returns given the market conditions, the macroeconomic scenario and the 
specific events of the company and the sector, may differ from the opinions of technical analysts, which aim to Identify the most likely movements on asset prices, 
using "stops" limit possible losses.
15) Investment in stocks is appropriate for moderate and aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. Equity 
investments available are portion a company’s capital that is traded on the market. Stock is a variable financial investment (i.e. an investment in which profitability is 
not pre-established and varies depending on market quotations). Investment in stock is a high-risk investment and past performance is not necessarily indicative of 
future results and no statement or warranty, expressed or implied, is made in this material in relation to future performance. Market conditions, macroeconomic 
scenario, company and sector specific events can affect investment performance and may even result in significant asset losses. The recommended duration for 
equity investments is medium-long term. There is no guarantee of investment return for customers’ investments in stock.
16) Investment in options is preferably indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. In options market, 
the purchase or sale rights of a good shall be negotiated at a price fixed at a future date, and the purchaser of the negotiated duty should pay a premium to the seller 
as in a secure agreement. Operations with these derivatives are considered very high risk for presenting high risk and return relationships and some positions 
present the possibility of losses higher than the capital invested. The recommended duration for the investment is short-term and the customer's assets are not 
guaranteed in this type of product.
17) Investment in terms is indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP Investimentos. They are contracts for the 
purchase or sale of a certain number of shares at a fixed price for settlement within a specified period. The term of the contract is freely chosen by the investors, 
complying with the minimum period of 16 days and a maximum of 999 days. The price will be the value of the added share of a portion corresponding to the interest-
which are set freely on the market, depending on the term of the contract. Every transaction in the term requires a guarantee deposit. These guarantees are provided 
in two forms: coverage or margin.
18) Investments in futures markets are subject to significant loss of principal, and are therefore appropriate for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability 
policies practiced by XP Investimentos. A commodity is an object or price determinant of a future contract or other derivative instrument, which may substantiate an 
index, a fee, a movable value or a physical product. Commodities are considered high risk investments, which include the possibility of price fluctuation due to the 
use of financial leverage. The recommended duration for commodity investments is short-term and customers’ assets are not guaranteed in this type of product. 
Market conditions and the macroeconomic scenario can affect the performance investments.
19) This institution is adhering ANBIMA Code of Regulation and best practices for the distribution activity of retail investment products.
20) XP Investments US, LLC, a broker-dealer registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has assumed responsibility for this research for 
purposes of U.S. law. All transactions arising from this research should be directed to XP Investments US, LLC, at+1 646-664-0525
11